Big Question: What are the potential light-scattering phenomena?

The potential light-scattering phenomena that can be examined this semester are Mie Scattering, Rayleigh Scattering, and the Tyndall Effect.

Small Question: What is Rayleigh Scattering?

Rayleigh scattering, to start, is the reason why the sky and water appear to be blue and is essentially the explanation for why we see nature the way that we do. The different wavelengths of light scatter as they encounter the frequencies of the particles in the medium they are encountering (this is why smoke can change the color of the air and intensify sunsets). If the frequency of the light is below the resonance frequency of whatever it is passing through (the medium). This is why blue light, which has a highest frequency, is more visible.

Small Question: What is Mie Scattering?

Mie (which is not a acronym and is pronounced 'Me') Scattering has to do with larger particles. If the particle is larger than 1/10th of a wavelength, this causes the scattered light to potentially be out of phase with other nearby scattered light. Unlike with Rayleigh, where the scatter is symmetrical, the light actually concentrates in the forward direction. This causes dissymmetry (the difference in the forward and backwards dispersion) and can be used to determine the size of the particles dispersing the light. Rayleigh scattering is a special case for Mie scattering, as the size is small enough that not all factors are needed. Mie scattering involves particle size, refractive indices of the particle and the medium, shape, dielectric constant, and particle absorptivity.